VI - LEAVING ALL BEHIND
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
- HUGO: They don't know
how to pilot the boat.
- AMICIA: Hm?
- HUGO: Mummy and Lucas.
- AMICIA: Oh...
They're... alright, Hugo...
They're the smartest people I know.
- HUGO: It's bleeding again.
- AMICIA: Yes, we should fix that
before it gets infected I guess.
- HUGO: There's water over there.
- AMICIA: Yes.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(WATER FLOWING )
Is it your island?
- HUGO: Yes.
These look like teeth.
It's a two teeth island.
- AMICIA: You know...
I think I saw it...
On a painting...
In Vaudin's laboratory.
- HUGO: So it's really real?
I'll do it.
- AMICIA: Be gentle, please.
- HUGO: Yes.
It's done.
- AMICIA: Already?
Nice!
Thank you!
You're good at this.
- HUGO: I tried not to hurt you.
- AMICIA: You're good at this.
Now come on sir.
We need to find your island.
- HUGO: Yes.
♪♪♪
How do we get to an island?
- AMICIA: By boat.
Once we know where it is.
- HUGO: Do you think Mummy will be angry?
- AMICIA: She won't be pleased, but...
Don't worry.
- HUGO: Hm... And...
Do you think
those bandits will follow them?
- AMICIA: No... they'll be safe.
- HUGO: But... they have no weapons.
- AMICIA: They'll flee or blend in, Hugo.
- HUGO: Hm...
- AMICIA: Wow... Look at those flowers!
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: Come on, you like flowers.
- HUGO: But... what if their boat sinks?
- AMICIA: Hugo...
- HUGO: Do they know how to swim?
- AMICIA: They'll be fine!
- HUGO: Promise?
- AMICIA: Yes.
Wait. You see that tree?
I'm sure I can reach it faster than you.
- HUGO: Now? Why?
- AMICIA: Because you're a little chicken!
- HUGO: I'm not. You are.
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) Show me then.
Three...
Two...
One...
Hey! (LAUGHS)
- HUGO: You're... going to be a chicken!
(LAUGHS)
- AMICIA: (GROANS) No, don't...
Ah... Stop bleeding again...
- HUGO: I'm winning! (LAUGHS)
- AMICIA: (EXHALES DEEPLY)
It'll pass...
- HUGO: Ah...
- AMICIA: Oh! (LAUGHS)
- HUGO: It's not funny!
- AMICIA: (LAUGHS) Sorry, but it is!
Did you hurt yourself?
- HUGO: No... Oh! Look!
- AMICIA: That's a beautiful feather!
- HUGO: So soft...
So blue...
- AMICIA: It must've fallen
from that nest up in the tree, see?
- HUGO: Oh... yes...
- AMICIA: We'll look for other nests.
I'm sure we'll find more feathers.
- HUGO: Yes!
- AMICIA: In the meantime,
I'll make you...
A bird!
- HUGO: A knight bird!
- AMICIA: Oh... that reminds me...
I found some pretty flowers
when I was out with Lucas.
Do you want them?
- HUGO: Hm... I think
I prefer feather now.
- AMICIA: Oh... (CHUCKLES) Fine.
- HUGO: That was a good race.
- AMICIA: It... was.
- HUGO: It's still hurting you?
- AMICIA: No.
- AMICIA: What hurts the most is...
That I'm a chicken now!
- HUGO: But a nice chicken!
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) You're too kind!
- HUGO: Next time, I'm letting you win.
- AMICIA: Oh no!
Next time, I'll crush you! (CHUCKLES)
(FROG CROAKING)
- HUGO: Frogs! Look!
Right there!
- AMICIA: Hello, froggies!
- HUGO: Come on!
Jump! Jump!
- AMICIA: They have good legs.
- HUGO: I wish I had the same.
- AMICIA: Mm... No.
- HUGO: Oh... Do you hear that?
What is it?
- AMICIA: Chants.
It sounds like a mass.
- HUGO: There's a church here?
- AMICIA: We'll see.
What is that?
- HUGO: A market!
- AMICIA: No... We're too far from a city.
But the chants are coming from there.
- HUGO: Maybe they know about the island.
- AMICIA: Yes.
We're going to ask.
- WOMAN: Hello.
Can I... do something for you?
- AMICIA: Hello... Yes...
We're trying to find our way...
- HUGO: Why are people singing?
- WOMAN: Oh... Because it's mass time.
We run a pilgrimage.
So we pray for the success of our journey.
- AMICIA: Oh... you're on your way to Rome?
- WOMAN: Exactly.
And you?
Where are you heading?
- AMICIA: To an island.
We... don't know much about it.
- WOMAN: Hm... Our leader Perreux,
he knows the region well.
He will help you.
You'll find him near the ruins.
He's the one leading the mass.
Though you should rest a while in the shade.
You look hurt.
- AMICIA: Ah... yes.
Thank you!
- HUGO: Thank you!
- WOMAN: You're welcome!
- HUGO: Why are they going to Rome?
- AMICIA: Because next year is the jubilee.
It's a very special year.
Let's try to find this Perreux.
(CHILDREN LAUGHTERS)
- MAN: Careful, children!
Not too fast.
- HUGO: Hi goose! (CHUCKLES)
(GOOSE SAYS "HI" BACK)
- MAN 1: Well,
the elders seem to be doing alright.
- MAN 2: Yes.
They're solid, these ones.
- MAN 1: Yes, their faith is strong.
- KID: Will we see the Pope in Rome?
- MAN 3: (CHUCKLES)
Maybe, if we're lucky.
There will be thousands
and thousands of people there.
- WOMAN: Hello.
- AMICIA: Oh... Hello.
- HUGO: Hello.
(CHANTS GET LOUDER)
- AMICIA: There's our mass.
- HUGO: Isn't that Perreux at the back?
- MAN: Shhh...
Yes.
You'll see him after it's finished
- HUGO: Oh... Sorry.
- AMICIA: We'll wait here. Thank you!
- PERREUX: My Lord...
I draw nearer to you.
Protect these humble pilgrims
on their holy journey.
As they seek mercy
in these times of darkness.
And receive the prayers of the weakest.
Amen.
- ALL PEOPLE: Amen.
- MAN: You can go now.
- AMICIA: Thank you.
- HUGO: Amen.
- MAN: Huh?
- AMICIA: "Amen" doesn't mean "thank you", you know.
- HUGO: Ah...
- AMICIA: (CHUCKLES) Let's talk to him.
- HUGO: Hello.
- PERREUX: Oh... Hello.
And welcome.
You're new here.
- AMICIA: Yes... Well, actually we're a bit lost.
- PERREUX: And where are you going?
Not to Rome, I would've seen.
- HUGO: No... We're looking for an island.
It has two teeth, and there's a bird, and a small lake.
And flowers...
- AMICIA: It's probably an island
with two large moutains.
We were told you could help us find it.
- PERREUX: Not from memory.
But I have an old map
of the Mediterranean Sea some where.
Do you want to have a look.
- AMICIA: Yes, thank you. That'd be perfect.
- SOLDIER: Good people.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
- PERREUX: What's going on?
- SOLDIER: We're looking for a boy and a girl.
The girl has killed several soldiers.
She's armed and dangerous.
By order of Count Victor of Arles.
We're searching this camp.
- PERREUX: I know a guilty look when I see one.
But... whatever you've done.
I won't give up a child.
Come with me.
We need to get you out of the camp.
Follow me closely.
Try to blend in.
- WOMAN 1: What's going on?
- SOLDIER: Make way. Clear your tents.
- WOMAN 2: They're looking for someone.
- SOLDIER: Cooperate, and no harm will be done.
- MAN 1: Please, don't hurt us.
- MAN 2: We haven't done anything.
We're good Christians.
- THE BEAST: Any new pilgrim recently?
Interloeprs?
- PERREUX: Careful.
- WOMAN: (SCOFFS) There're new people
coming everyday, you know.
- HUGO: Will people tell on us?
- PERREUX: No, but...
I hope you'll make amends.
- AMICIA: I'm trying.
- PERREUX: We're all judged, eventually.
Slowly, there're more of them.
- SOLDIER 1: Two children.
A girl and a small boy.
- MAN: I'm not sure.
There-there're so many of us now.
- SOLDIER 1: Then, think.
- WOMAN: Hey! Be careful!
- SOLDIER 2: Stay back!
- PERREUX: No.
- AMICIA: Problem.
- PERREUX: Hide under that cart
before they see you.
I'll handle them.
- AMICIA: Come on.
- HUGO: Amicia...
- AMICIA: I know, shh...
- PERREUX: Excuse me.
- SOLDIER 1: What do you want?
- PERREUX: Have you checked
that group over there?
Some of them joined us recently.
Not that they really look like
your fugitives, but...
...who knows.
- SOLDIER 1: It's better than nothing.
Let's go and see.
- SOLDIER 2: You heard him.
Be on guard and keep your eyes open.
- AMICIA: Good idea!
- HUGO: Do we go now, Amicia?
- AMICIA: Not yet.
Wait for his signal.
- HUGO: Mm hm...
- SOLDIER: Ey, you!
- WOMAN: Me?
- SOLDIER: How long
have you been with this procession?
- PERREUX: The way is clear.
Come. Calmly.
- AMICIA: Let's go.
- PERREUX: You'll find a path to the sea.
On the other side of this pen.
- AMICIA: We won't forget this.
- HUGO: Thank you!
- PERREUX: Be careful.
- AMICIA: Come on.
We need to get away from here.
- HUGO: I hope this all just won't happen.
- AMICIA: They won't hurt anybody
if they don't find us.
Let's get as far away as possible.
- SOLDIER: Some people just saw a boy
and a girl crossing the camp.
Extend the search!
- HUGO: Oh no!
- AMICIA: Quick!
- SOLDIER: Stop! Here!
They're here!
Run, Hugo! Straight on!
- AMICIA: Take... your hands...
...off me!
Oh no! Hugo!
- SOLDIER: On me! They're here!
I need reinforcements!
- HUGO: Amicia!
- AMICIA: (GROANS) My head.
- HUGO: Get up! We must leave!
- AMICIA: Yes... Yes...
I'm dizzy.
Your hand.
- HUGO: You're bleeding again.
- AMICIA: Lord...
- SOLDIER: After them!
- HUGO: Amicia.
We must leave!
- AMICIA: Yes.
We have to keep... moving.
- HUGO: Where are we?
- AMICIA: Looks like... a quarry.
- HUGO: We're going in there? It's dark.
- AMICIA: (GROANS) I don't...
know if there's another way.
Let's push inside.
We must not stay in the open.
We'll make it.
Now we know where the sea is.
- HUGO: It doesn't matter.
I want you to be safe.
- AMICIA: Yes.
I'm... working on it.
- HUGO: Where are they?
- AMICIA: Don't know.
Hold my hand tight.
- HUGO: Did you really kill soldiers?
- AMICIA: Yes... I-I-I lost myself.
- HUGO: You didn't tell me!
- AMICIA: I was ashamed.
Now stay focused.
Take care of it, Hugo.
- HUGO: Yes.
It's open.
- AMICIA: Well done.
- HUGO: Are they the soldiers from the city?
- AMICIA: Yes.
- HUGO: But... they were nice.
- AMICIA: They looked nice.
They were not. Believe me.
Let's see what's inside.
- HUGO: Amicia, your head...
- AMICIA: I know.
But we can't stop now.
Don't worry about me.
- HUGO: Mm hm...
Stop, Amicia.
There're people.
- AMICIA: I hear nothing.
How'd you know?
- HUGO: I... I feel them.
I think it's the rats.
I can try to feel better.
- AMICIA: You sure about this?
- HUGO: Yes. Don't worry.
- AMICIA: Fine... careful.
- HUGO: Yes, I see them.
They're here. Soldiers.
- AMICIA: Hold on... How?
- HUGO: The rats...
They can feel people's blood.
Now I can too.
It's like a noise...
Like an echo.
- AMICIA: So where are they?
- HUGO: Close. Coming.
I can do it again if you want.
- AMICIA: Good. Let's go. Careful.
A door. Up there.
- HUGO: Your head looks bad.
- AMICIA: I'm fine. The rats, Hugo...
Are they a threat? Are they coming out?
- HUGO: No, they're deep for now.
- AMICIA: Stay focused on them.
- HUGO: I see more of them.
- AMICIA: You're doing well.
- HUGO: They're here too.
- AMICIA: How do we get out of here?
Go to hell.
- HUGO: What are you doing, Amicia?
Here. The trap door.
- AMICIA: Yes, that's our way out.
(GROANS) Not now...
- HUGO: Amicia...
- AMICIA: (EXHALES DEEPLY)
Let me... breathe...
- HUGO: We should wait, Amicia.
- AMICIA: No, they'll find us.
We have to reach that building.
- HUGO: Is it a church?
- AMICIA: Don't know.
But we're too exposed.
We'll try in there.
Maybe safer.
- SOLDIER: ...Search the area.
Get that witch!
- HUGO: They won't give up.
- AMICIA: They're butchers.
- HUGO: Did you kill a lot of them
in the city?
- AMICIA: More than I should have.
- SOLDIER 1: Remember, the Count of Arles
wants this land cleaned of its scum!
This girl killed yo brothers.
Our execution will take place here!
- SOLDIER 2: And where is our Count, huh?
His land is stripping by a plague.
- SOLDIER 1: He's the one
giving the orders. Show some respect!
- AMICIA: We can...
We can make it...
- HUGO: Yes...
- AMICIA: Quiet.
- HUGO: We're almost there, Amicia.
- AMICIA: Yes.
Be cautious with the drop.
- HUGO: I'll try.
- AMICIA: Up, there.
- HUGO: On my way.
The rats...
I feel them...
...moving below.
They're following us.
- AMICIA: Leave them are for now.
Clear.
- HUGO: Be careful.
You're too tired.
- AMICIA: Don't... worry...
(EXHALES) We're here.
But... I'm sorry, I'm not good, Hugo.
- HUGO: You'll rest inside.
- AMICIA: We're... (GROANS)
(BREATHES HEAVILY) It hurts... so much...
I'm not sure I'll make it.
- HUGO: No, it will go away.
I'll protect you.
We'll go to the island together.
- AMICIA: Yes... we have to...
...get out of here.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
I'm doing all I can.
- HUGO: It stinks so much.
- AMICIA: Dead. Bodies.
(GROANS)
- HUGO: No... No, don't die.
- AMICIA: I'm too...
...dizzy...
- HUGO: No... You can't sleep here.
Please, wake up!
(GROUND SHAKING)
(SCREECHING NOISE)
What?
No no... They're coming, Amicia!
No!
Amicia!
Wake up!
(GROUND SHAKING)
No, they're here, Amicia!
You have to wake up!
- SOLDIER: What's all the racket?
With me!
- HUGO: Oh no, soldiers.
No no...
Amicia, wake up!
- SOLDIER: Rats, they're here too.
No... they'll see us...
What do I do?
Ah... Amicia...
(GROANS)
- SOLDIER: (SCREAMING)
- HUGO: Was that real?
Oh... you're back!
Are you alright?
- AMICIA: What... What happened?
Rats... they're here... Rats...
- HUGO: Don't worry. They helped.
- AMICIA: What?
- SOLDIER 1: Hey!
- SOLDIER 2: What?
- SOLDIER 1: You see that? Rats!
- SOLDIER 2: Yes.
What happened here?
- SOLDIER 1: They're... They're eating...
some of our men!
- SOLDIER 2: Careful!
- AMICIA: Soldiers... No...
I can't...
- HUGO: Rest. I'll handle them.
- AMICIA: How?
- HUGO: I'll show you.
(GRUNTS)
- AMICIA: Wait... what's going on?
(SOLDIERS SCREAMING)
What's going on? Answer me!
Are you doing this?
- HUGO: They won't... hurt you.
It's done.
- AMICIA: What was that?
Did you really...?
- HUGO: Yes... Can you stand up?
- AMICIA: I need to.
Easy... (EXHALES DEEPLY)
- HUGO: Come on. Let's leave.
- AMICIA: Did you really... control them?
- HUGO: Yes.
They let me, uh... use them.
- AMICIA: Alright, let's just go, for now.
How... do you feel?
- HUGO: I still hear them in my head.
It's ringing.
- AMICIA: Y-you... control them like before?
- HUGO: Mm... Not like before.
This time, I was inside their head.
- AMICIA: Careful.
They must not take control of you.
The Macula wants to take you over...
feed on your emotions...
You have to be very careful.
- HUGO: I will.
- AMICIA: I'm getting... cold.
Have to move faster.
- HUGO: Yes.
It'll keep you warm.
- AMICIA: Oh Lord...
The size of this place...
How can we...?
- HUGO: We will do it.
Please, don't die.
- AMICIA: Not... yet...
Soldiers, rats... Careful.
- HUGO: I'll watch over you.
Amicia...
There are rats hiding inside the basins.
- AMICIA: Maybe you could... get them out?
Go on. Use them.
- HUGO: Yes.
I'll open a safe way.
Let us pass!
You're scared now, huh?
- AMICIA: Calm down...
Keep your focus.
- HUGO: You won't... stop us!
- AMICIA: Don't get carried away.
You have to keep control of them!
- HUGO: It's done.
- AMICIA: Yes, but be careful.
- HUGO: Yes.
- AMICIA: Just...
Don't make the same mistake as me.
That's all.
Oh no!
- SOLDIER: Found them!
Don't let 'em escape!
- AMICIA: Can't believe...
We made it.
- HUGO: Oh no!
(LOUD DOOR KNOCKING SOUND)
- AMICIA: What? No!
- THE BEAST: You're trapped!
This is personal.
You're mine now!
- HUGO: Amicia, your wound!
- AMICIA: I don't care.
I'll finish this!
- THE BEAST: I'll deal with the child too.
Enough weeds in this land.
- AMICIA: Stay close to me, Hugo.
- HUGO: Amicia, look at his back!
- AMICIA: Yes. I see it.
(THE BEAST SCREAMING)
- HUGO: Amicia.
Are you alright?
- AMICIA: I'm fine... I'm fine...
Let's go.
- HUGO: Amicia?
Amicia!
No!
It's bleeding a lot.
- SOLDIER: Look, they're here.
- HUGO: They're coming!
- AMICIA: I can't. You have to handle it yourself.
- HUGO: Are you sure?
- AMICIA: Do it. Quick!
(GROUND BREAKING)
- HUGO: You've hurt her enough!
- AMICIA: Keep... control... Hugo...
- HUGO: Stop! Or I'll kill all of you!
I did it before!
You're all the same!
You're all monsters!
- AMICIA: Calm down!
Stay focused or you...
You'll lose control.
- HUGO: I'm sick of you!
I hate you and your army!
You're dead if you keep coming!
They'll keep eating you!
(GRUNTS)
I will... eat you!
- SOLDIER: He's crazy. We must stop him!
We need more men!
Bring them! I will eat all of you!
- AMICIA: You must stop it, Hugo!
Stop, Hugo! You're losing control!
- HUGO: (PANTING)
- AMICIA: Hugo? Hugo!
What's wrong? What's wrong?
(GROUND RUMBLING)
Oh no... HUGO!
No!
(PANTING)
Oh Lord... Lord...
We have to get out of here.
- HUGO: What?
What was that noise?
- AMICIA: Oh no!
I'll get us out of here.
- HUGO: I... I did it again?
I'm sorry... I'm sorry...
- AMICIA: I... am gonna make it.
I'll... push you... up.
Get ready.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
- HUGO: Amicia, come!
- AMICIA: (EFFORT GRUNT)
I can't, I can't.
- HUGO: Please!
- HUGO: Amicia, quick!
- AMICIA: I can't.
- HUGO: Amicia!
Please come!
Amicia!
Huh...